Download Link: https://assignmentchef.com/product/solved-solvedspecification-6-linked-lists-solution
<br>
Programming Assignment 6: Individual Assignment. You must complete this assignment on your own. You may not acquire from any source (e.g. another student or a web site) a partial or complete solution to a problem or project that has been assigned. You may not show another student your solution to an assignment. You may not have another person (current student, former student, tutor, friend, anyone) “walk you through” how to solve an assignment. You may get help from the instructional staff. You may discuss general ideas and approaches with other students but you may not develop code together. Review the class policy on collaboration from the syllabus.Placed online: Tuesday, March 320 points, ~2% of final grade.Due: no later than 11 pm, Thursday, March 12General Assignment RequirementsThe purpose of this assignment is to implement a linked list class that uses doubly linked nodes. Doubly linked nodes have references (pointers) to the next node in the list and back to the previous node in the list. This makes some things harder because there are more references (pointers) to set up. But, it makes a lot of things easier because it is possible to back up in the list without having to start over at the beginning, use the look ahead technique, or use a trailer node.Files:

FileResponsibilitySource CodeDoubleListNode.java (Alternatively you can add a nested class to the LinkedList class for the doubly linked nodes as demonstrated in lecture. None of the test cases reference the DoubleListNode class.)Provided by me. Do not alter the stand alone class.Source CodeIList.java Interface your LinkedList class implements.Provided by me. Do not alterSource CodeStopwatch.javaProvided by me. Do not alter.ImplementationLinkedList.java. Implementation of a doubly linked list.Provided by you and me. (Okay, mostly you.)Test codeLinkedListTester.java. Test harness. correct any tests that have errors. Ensure your LinkedList class passes the tests included and add more tests.Provided by you and me.DocumentationJavadoc files for DoubleListNode, IList, and LinkedList

Draw pictures!! When completing methods and figuring out all the references that have to be updated and what the special cases are DRAW PICTURES of the linked structure. This is much easier than just looking at code and trying to figure out what must be done or why something does not work.Also realize when you get an error in a test the cause is usually in another method. It is often the case that students make errors when adding or removing elements or changing the structure of the internal storage container (the linked structure of nodes), but the error does not show up until later on a test of toString.Implementation details:Complete the LinkedList class. For this assignment you may not use the LinkedList or ArrayList classes from the Java standard library. You must implement the underlying storage container as a doubly linked structure using the DoubleListNode class. The DoubleListNodes and LinkedList are generic based on Java’s generic syntax.You may approach the implementation in many ways. (References to first and last node, circular list with only a link to the first node, use of header nodes that don’t contain any data) The approach you take is up to you. Each has certain advantages and disadvantages.In addition to implementing the methods specified in the IList interface you must add the following methods to the LinkedList class. E is the data type variable. It will hold what the data type is for the elements (thus the E) of a particular LinkedList object.void addFirst(E item) // add an item to the front of this LinkedListvoid addLast(E item) // add an item to the end of this LinkedListE removeFirst() // remove the first item in this LinkedListE removeLast() // remove the first item in this LinkedListoverride the toString method. The data in the list should be listed between square brackets with a comma between each item and a single space after each comma. e.g. [A, B, C]public String toString()override the equals method. Two ILists are equal if they have the same number of elements in the same order.public boolean equals(Object other). Two empty lists are equal regardless of the kinds of elements they store. (This is true in the Java standard library.)LinkedListTester provides some tests for the LinkedList class. Some of these tests may be incorrect. Find and fix any incorrect tests. Your class must pass these (corrected) tests. In your final submission delete the provided tests. Add at least 3 tests of your own per method in the LinkedList class to the LinkedListTester class. Use the class discussion group to discuss which tests are in error and how to correct. Post the tests you write to the class class discussion group. Note, most of my tests rely on your iterator method. If that is not working you will fail the tests. I strongly recommend you test your methods as you complete them by writing your own tests! Write a method, then test it. Write a method, then test it. DON’T do this: write a method, write a method, write a method, … then test …then debug, debug, debug, debug, debug, debug, debug, debug, debug.For every method in the LinkedList class state the Big O of the method if there are already N items in the list.The methods for the iterator for your linked list shall all be O(1).If a method has preconditions you must check those preconditions and throw an Exception if they are not met.You can, of course, implement methods using other methods from the class. You should only do this if the version of a method that relies on other methods in the class is as efficient as not using other methods.As always, use good style: comments for non obvious algorithms and operations, good variable names, use helper methods if necessary, make operations as efficient as possible given the constraints.Experiments: It is interesting and important to know the difference in behavior between linked lists and array based lists. When your LinkedList class is finished, run the comparison method from the LinkedListTester class which performs a number of tests with your LinkedList and the Java ArrayList class. To run the method simply uncomment the line at the end of the main method in LinkedListTester that calls the comparison method. You are free to change the initial value of N for the various tests in the comparison method.In a comment at the top of your LinkedListTester class indicate which operations are faster when using your LinkedList, which are faster when using the Java ArrayList class, and which ones are about the same. (Realize the experiments use different starting values of N.)For the operations tested via the experiment what do you think the Big O of each operation / method is based on the timing data? State your reasoning.

Submission: Fill in the header in the LinkedListTester.java and LinkedList.java files.. Replace Create a zip file name a6.zip [case sensitive! Do not name the file A6.zip!] with your LinkedListTester.java and LinkedList.java files. file. The zip file must not contain any directory structure, just the required file.

See this page for instructions on how to create a zip via Eclipse.Turn in a6.zip via your Canvas account to programming assignment 6.Ensure you files are named LinkedListTester.java and LinkedList.java. Failure to do so will result in points off.Ensure LinkedListTester.java and LinkedList.java are part of the default package. Do not add a package statement to either file.Ensure your zip has no internal directory structure. When the file is unzipped no directories (folders) are created. (Note, the built in unzip feature of some versions of Windows and Apple OS X “help” by adding a directory when you unzip with the same name as the file. The unzip we use on the CS Linux system does not do this. Neither do unzip programs such as 7zip.)Ensure you submit the assignment under Programming Assignment 6 in Canvas.If you resubmit your file you must first delete the previous versions, otherwise Canvas renames the file. See this page for instructions.

Checklist. Did you remember to:review and follow the general assignment requirements?work on the assignment individually?fill in the header in LinkeListTester.java and LinkedList.java?ensure each method in your LinkedList class states the Big O of the method in the method comment?ensure your version of LinkedList passes the tests in LinkedListTester.java and add your own tests?ensure your program does not suffer a compile error or runtime error?place the results of your experiments and conclusions in a comment at the top of LinkedListTester.java?turn in your a6.zip file with your Java source code files (LinkedList.java and LinkedListTester.java) to Canvas before 11 pm, Monday, March 12?

Back to the CS 314 homepage.